### GRLib ###
GRLib is a python package containing implementations of Goal Recognition (GR) algorithms which use MDPs to represent the decision making process. All agents in those algorithms interact with an environment that's registered in gym API.
## Setup: ##
1. Ensure you have python 3.11 installed.
If you have root permissions, simply use:
```
mkdir -p ~/.local/python3.11
dnf install python3.11 --prefix ~/.local/python3.11
echo 'export PATH=$HOME/.local/python3.11/bin:$PATH' >> ~/.bashrc
source ~/.bashrc
```
Else, use pyenv:
```
pyenv install 3.11.0
```
2. Create a new venv or use an existing 3.11 venv, and activate it. To create a new venv:
```
~/.pyenv/versions/3.11.0/bin/python -m venv graml_env
./Python-3.11.0/graml_env/bin/activate
```
If you're not a sudo, and you have problems with building python getting such warnings:
```
WARNING: The Python ctypes extension was not compiled. Missing the libffi lib?
```
That means you don't have the necesarry libraries for building python, and you probably can't change that since you're not a sudoer.
An alternative solution can be using a conda env:
```
conda create -n graml_env python=3.11
conda activate graml_env
```
3. Install GoalRecognitionLibs to get all needed dependencies:
```
git clone [GoalRecognitionLibs address]
cd GoalRecognitionLibs
pip install -e . # using the conda's pip of course
```

### How to use Grlib ###
Now that you've installed the package, you have additional custom gym environments and you can start creating an ODGR scenario with the algorithm you wish to test.
The tutorial at tutorials/tutorial.py follows a simple ODGR scnenario. We guide through the initialization and deployment process following the example.

1. create the recognizer: we need to state the base problems on which the recognizer train.
we also need the env_name for the sake of storing the trained models.
Other notable parameters include the parameters for the training of the model: For example, Graml's LSTM needs to accept input sizes the size of the concatenation of the state space with the action space.

<pre>
```
recognizer = GramlRecognizer(
    env_name="point_maze", # TODO change to macros which are importable from some info or env module of enums.
    problems=[("PointMaze-FourRoomsEnvDense-11x11-Goal-9x1"),
              ("PointMaze-FourRoomsEnv-11x11-Goal-9x9"), # this one doesn't work with dense rewards because of encountering local minima
              ("PointMaze-FourRoomsEnvDense-11x11-Goal-1x9"),
              ("PointMaze-FourRoomsEnvDense-11x11-Goal-3x3"),
              ("PointMaze-FourRoomsEnvDense-11x11-Goal-3x4"),
              ("PointMaze-FourRoomsEnvDense-11x11-Goal-8x2"),
              ("PointMaze-FourRoomsEnvDense-11x11-Goal-3x7"),
              ("PointMaze-FourRoomsEnvDense-11x11-Goal-2x8")],
    task_str_to_goal=maze_str_to_goal,
    method=NeuralAgent,
    collect_statistics=False,
    train_configs=[(SAC, 200000) for i in range(8)],
    partial_obs_type="fragmented",
    batch_size=32,
    input_size=6,
    hidden_size=8,
    num_samples=20000,
    problem_list_to_str_tuple=lambda problems: "_".join([f"[{s.split('-')[-1]}]" for s in problems]),
    is_learn_same_length_sequences=False,
    goals_adaptation_sequence_generation_method=AGENT_BASED # take expert samples in goals adaptation phase
)
```
</pre>

2. The domain learning phase: In GRAML's case, the recognizer generates a dataset by training agents towards the base goals and trains an metric model combined of an LSTM on traces generated by those agents.
<pre>
```
recognizer.domain_learning_phase()
```
</pre>
3. The goals adaptation phase: The recognizer receives new goals, along with configurations to the training of those agents - since the sequence generation method in this case is from an expert.
<pre>
```
recognizer.goals_adaptation_phase(
    dynamic_goals_problems = ["PointMaze-FourRoomsEnvDense-11x11-Goal-4x4",
                              "PointMaze-FourRoomsEnvDense-11x11-Goal-7x3",
                              "PointMaze-FourRoomsEnvDense-11x11-Goal-3x7"],
    dynamic_train_configs=[(SAC, 200000) for i in range(3)] # for expert sequence generation
)
```
</pre>
4. Inference phase - this snippet generates a partial sequence by an agent trained towards one of the goals of the inference phase. Note how the trace is generated using a different agent from the recognizer's inner agents or expert (TD3 rather than SAC), and with noise added to every action to simulate suboptimal behavior.
<pre>
```
actor = NeuralAgent(env_name="point_maze", problem_name="PointMaze-FourRoomsEnvDense-11x11-Goal-4x4", algorithm=TD3, num_timesteps=200000)
actor.learn()
full_sequence = actor.generate_observation(
    action_selection_method=stochastic_amplified_selection,
    random_optimalism=True, # the noise that's added to the actions
)
partial_sequence = random_subset_with_order(full_sequence, (int)(0.5 * len(full_sequence)), is_fragmented="fragmented")
closest_goal = recognizer.inference_phase(partial_sequence, maze_str_to_goal("PointMaze-FourRoomsEnvDense-11x11-Goal-4x4"), 0.5)
```
</pre>
5. check the result returned by GRAML and print whether it was right or not.
<pre>
```
print(f"closest_goal returned by GRAML: {closest_goal}\nactual goal actor aimed towards: (4, 4)")
```
</pre>

### GRAML - goals adaptation phase issues
If you see the plan generated by the MCTS planner isn't optimal, it needs more rollouts. Go to graml_recognizer.py and change the number of rollouts it decides when it calls 'plan' of mcts_planner.py.

### Package Design ###


### Experiments ###
Given here is a guide for executing the experiments. There are benchmark domains suggested in the repository, and the 'scripts' directory suggests a series of tools to analyze them. They are defaultly set on the domains used for GRAML and GRAQL analysis during the writing of GRAML paper, but can easily be adjusted for new domains and algorithms.
1. analyze_results_cross_alg_cross_domain.py: this script runs with no arguments. it injects information from get_experiment_results_path (for example: dataset\graml\minigrid\continuing\inference_same_seq_len\learn_diff_seq_len\experiment_results\obstacles\L111\experiment_results.pkl), and produces a plot with 4 figures showing the accuracy trend of algorithms on the domains checked one against the other. Currently GRAML is checked against GRAQL or DRACO but it can easily be adjusted from within the script.
2. generate_task_specific_statistics_plots.py - this script produces, for a specific task execution (results of execution of experiments.py), a summary combined of a figure with sticks with the accuracies and confidence levels of an algorithm on the task on the varying percentages. figures\point_maze\obstacles\graql_point_maze_obstacles_fragmented_stats.png is an example of a path at which the output is dumped. Another product of this script is a confusion matrix with the confidence levels - visualizing the same data, and the output file resides in this path: figures\point_maze\obstacles\graml_point_maze_obstacles_fragmented_inference_same_seq_len_learn_diff_seq_len_goals_conf_mat.png.
